National Stock Exchange of India Limited
Circular

Department: Investigation                 Date: May 05, 2025
Download Ref No: NSE/INVG/67858
Circular Ref. No: 471/2025

All Market Participants,

Sub: Safer participation of retail investors in Algorithmic trading

This is with reference to SEBI Circular Ref. no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD/P/2025/0000013 dated
February 04, 2025 and NSE circular Ref. no. NSE/INVG/66524 dated February 05, 2025 regarding afer
participation of retail investors in Algorithmic trading .
The implementation standards on safer participation of retail investors in Algorithmic trading have been
formulated in accordance with para 7 (a) of the aforementioned SEBI Circular and are enclosed as
Annexure.
Market Participants are requested to take note of the above and comply.

For and on behalf of
National Stock Exchange of India Limited

Manish Deo
Associate Vice President
National Stock Exchange of India Limited

                                                                     Annexure

        Implementation Standards for safer participation of retail investors in Algorithmic trading
        (Under Clause 7 of the SEBI circular ref. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD/P/CIR/2025/0000013
        dated 4-Feb-2025)

         A. API Access Standards for Clients in Trading

         1. Stockbrokers may provide their clients with API access to their trading systems. To gain access,
              clients must mandatorily provide the stockbroker with a static IP address(es) which will be

         2. The client may give only one static IP address (primary), or provide additional Static IP address
              (secondary) for the purpose of connectivity redundancy

         3. Multiple API keys can be given to the same client (for connecting to different segments, running
              different algos, etc.). When the client takes the facility of Multiple API keys, then each such API
              key may be mapped to the same primary/ secondary static IPs of that client only or may have
              separate the primary/ secondary static IPs for each of the multiple API Keys.

         4. When the clients have taken multiple API keys, the broker will ensure that non-registered algos
              are run only through one of the predefined API keys. Other API keys can be used only for
              registered algos.

         5. The need for static IP is mandatory for API access for client generated algos and for algos
              generated via empanelled algo provider(s) using Vendor API Key or by the broker. In case of
              client generated algos, the static IP shall be that of the client whereas, in case of algos generated
              via empanelled algo provider(s), the static IP shall be that of the vendor or the client. For the
              broker-generated algos, the static IP shall be that of the broker or the client.

         6. Clients will have the ability to update their mapped static IP addresses as needed, but not more
              than once a calendar week. Clients may reach out to the broker in extraordinary cases where
              they have already updated the static IP once a week but need to make changes due to
              extenuating circumstances.

         7. A static IP can only be mapped to one client at a time. However, static IPs can be shared between
              clients provided such clients belong to one family as defined in SEBI circular
              SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD1/P/CIR/2024/169 dated 3 December 2024. The client shall
              provide a written request / email from registered email / request using 2FA validation to the
              broker for sharing the static IP to such family.

         8. All API sessions shall be compulsorily logged out every day before the start of the next trading
              day.

                                                                                                                                                                Page 2 of 6
National Stock Exchange of India Limited

         9. A Member Client API Enablement Annexure may be specified by the Exchanges from time to
              time.

        B. Standards around APIs without registering algo
         1. Clients can use API connectivity only for implementing automated trading systems, computer

              algorithms, or other software-based trading solutions to automate the buying and selling of
              securities/ contracts on the secondary markets. Such API connectivity should be equipped with
              the necessary RMS checks by the brokers.
         2. The Threshold Order Per Second (TOPS) is initially set at not exceeding 10 orders per second
              and may be adjusted by the stock exchanges as needed after due notice to the market. If the
              flow of algo orders from the client to the broker via API is below the defined Threshold Order Per
              Second (TOPS) i.e. 10 OPS per exchange, the client will not be required to register for algorithmic
              trading from the broker's system. The threshold will be applied basis the calendar clock second
              of the broker server.
         3. All such algo orders via API which are below the defined Threshold Order Per Second (TOPS),

              require registration with the Exchange and a generic algo ID shall be provided by the Exchange
              for such Algos. Such algos shall satisfy necessary conditions related to Risk Management (Refer

         4. The Stock Exchanges may, from time to time, specify restricted order types and/or
              contracts/securities for client algos. The brokers will ensure that their APIs do not permit such
              restricted orders/contracts/securities.

         5. If the broker receives orders that exceed the Threshold OPS limit, the broker shall reject/ not
              accept/not process any orders exceeding the OPS limit, in accordance with their policy.

         6. Every broker providing API connectivity to clients for trading should have the capability to
              effectively monitor or control the Threshold OPS limits for algos not requiring registration.

        C. Standards for clients generated registered algos
         1. If a client wishes to place orders at a speed exceeding the Threshold Order Per Second (OPS)

              i.e. 10 OPS, they must register their algorithm with each Exchange where the algorithm is
              intended to be used. The Exchanges will formulate a simplified registration and compliance
              framework for orders up to a certain threshold.

                                                                                                                                                                Page 3 of 6
National Stock Exchange of India Limited

         2. To register the algorithm, the client must provide the necessary details to the broker, who will
              forward this information to the relevant exchange(s). The exchange(s) will register the algorithm
              and issue a registration ID, which will be communicated by the broker to the client. The orders
              will be tagged with the exchange-provided algorithm ID(s).

         3.
              the broker. The broker will then notify the exchange and seek appropriate registration updation.

         4.
              through third parties /others.

        D. Broker generated algos
         1. Brokers may also create and offer various algorithms to their clients. Each algorithm created by

              the broker will be registered with the exchange, and an exchange-specific algorithm ID will be
              obtained.
         2. The broker can offer these algorithms to clients, providing the relevant details about the
              algorithm to those using it. All client orders executed through these algorithms must include the
              appropriate exchange algorithm ID.
         3. If there are any changes to the logic of a broker-generated algorithm, these modifications will be
              reported to the exchange, and the necessary approvals will be updated accordingly.

        E. Algos provided by algo provider
         1. All algorithm (Algo) providers must be empanelled with exchanges in accordance with the

              guidelines set by each exchange. The algo provider(s) must be registered with each exchange
              where the algorithms are intended to trade.
         2. The empanelled algo providers shall register all their algos with the exchange and the stock
              exchanges shall assign a unique algo ID to each such algo. Such unique algo IDs may be used
              across members once registered.
         3. The broker may enter into a commercial arrangement with the algo provider, which may include
              sharing of fees. Additionally, the broker may establish a technical arrangement with the algo

                                                                                                                means) with the algo

              systems through the technology services provided by the algo provider.

                                                                                                                                                                Page 4 of 6
National Stock Exchange of India Limited

         4. Any broker who has a commercial, technical, or combined arrangement with an exchange-
              empanelled algo provider must inform all relevant exchanges where the broker is a member in a
              manner as specified by the Exchanges from time to time. The broker must also notify the
              exchanges if the arrangement is terminated or ended.

         5. The broker should carry out adequate due diligence in relation to the algo provider and ensure
              that the algo provider is not involved in any misconduct or violation of securities laws. The broker
              must immediately report instances of such violations to the respective Exchange (s).

        F. Threshold Orders Per Second (OPS)
        The Threshold Order Per Second is initially set at not exceeding 10 orders per second per exchange
        /segment and may be adjusted by the stock exchanges as needed after due notice to the market. The
        broker may set its own threshold order per second limit at client level which may vary from client to
        client not exceeding the current prescribed Threshold Order Per Second.

        G. Algo ID tagging
        Exchanges shall issue appropriate tagging mechanisms for registered and registration free algo
        orders. All algo orders (Below and above the threshold) shall be tagged with a unique identifier
        provided by the Exchange in order to establish audit trail.

        H. Risk Management
        Brokers shall comply with the relevant requirements for Internet Based Trading (IBT), Securities
        trading using Wireless Technology (STWT), Risk Management and guidelines on Decision Support
        Tools / Algorithms trading
        Reference NSE consolidated circular NSE/MSD/67753 dated April 29, 2025.

        I. Operational Specifications for providing algo through IBT / STWT / Client API and Vendor API
          In addition to the guidelines mentioned in para 8.1 of NSE Circular dated April 29, 2025, the
          following shall be ensured -
         a. The broker should ensure sound audit trail for all IBT / STWT / Client API /Vendor API orders and
              trades and be able to provide identification of actual user and user-id for all such orders and
              trades. The audit trail data should be available for at least 5 years.

                                                                                                                                                                Page 5 of 6
National Stock Exchange of India Limited

         b. The IBT / STWT / Client API / Vendor API system shall have sufficient security features as
              prescribed in the SEBI cyber security circular no SEBI/HO/ITD-
              1/ITD_CSC_EXT/P/CIR/2024/113 dated August 20, 2024, other SEBI / Exchanges directives
              from time to time.

         c. Brokers shall be required to have OAuth (Open Authentication) based authentication only or any
              authentication mechanism allowed / communicated by the Exchange / SEBI from time to time.

         d. The IBT / STWT / Client API / Vendor API system shall have sufficient security features including
              password protection for the user and user ID, automatic expiry of passwords at the end of a
              reasonable duration, and re-initialisation of access on entering fresh passwords. System shall
              authenticate client access to IBT / STWT / other API through two factor authentication

         e. Brokers shall be required to put in place system, processes and policies to ensure that open APIs
              are not permitted, and access is being provided only through a unique vendor client specific API
              key and static IP whitelisted by the broker for retail users and unique vendor API key and
              whitelisted IP for algo providers to ensure identification and traceability of algo provider and the
              end user i.e. investor.

         f. The brokers shall be fully responsible and liable for all orders emanating through their IBT /
              STWT / Client API / Vendor API systems. It shall be the responsibility of the broker to ensure
              that only clients who fulfil the eligibility criteria are permitted to use the IBT / STWT / Client API
              / Vendor API facility.

         g. Brokers may take such other measures and implement such other safeguards as they deem fit
              to ensure security and integrity of transactions.

         h. All Retail Algorithms, including those provided by empanelled Algo providers should be hosted
                                      servers.

        J. Notes -
             1. These standards do not apply to trading under Direct Market Access (DMA), which will remain
                  governed by the relevant provisions.

             2. The broker may charge the client fees/subscription charges for providing the API services
                  which will be over and above the brokerage charged to the client including any charges levied
                  by the stock exchanges for algorithm registration and recovered from the client.

             3. The stock exchanges will have the authority to kill any rogue algo(s) in case it is impacting the
                  market.

                                                                                                                                                                Page 6 of 6
